# pandas-challenge
## Background
   In this Pandas Challenge, our role is the Chief Data Scientist for the city's school district to help the school board and mayor make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities. Two datasets were used to analyze the district-wide standardized test results:schools_complete.csv and student_complete.csv. After accessing every student's math and reading scores, as well as various information on the schools they attend, our task is to aggregate the data to showcase obvious trends in school performance by using Pandas and Jupyter Notebook.
  The first step is to merge the two datasets and to calculate the district summary, including the total number of schools, students and budget, the average math and reading score, the percentage of students with a passing math score and reading score and overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math and reading). The second step is to create an overview table that summarizes key metrics about each school, including: school name, school type, total students, total school budget, per student budget, average math score, average reading score, % passing math, % passing reading, and % overall passing.
Based on the previous dataframes, we did further analysis and found the observable trends:
### 1. The top 5 performing schools vs.the bottoms 5 performing schools
   The top 5 performing schools are charter schools and the bottoms 5 performing schools are district schools. The total students in top 5 performing schools are less than the students in the bottom 5 performing schools. The total budget and per student budget in the top 5 performing schools is less than those in the bottom 5 performing schools. The average math and reading score and the percentage 0f passing reading , math and the overall passing are obviously higher than those of the bottom 5 performing schools   
### 2. The average math score and reading score by Grade at each school have no significant difference.
   In each school, the average math and reading score are calculated for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th). From the results, there are slight changes in scores by grade. However, no significant trend can be observed.
### 3. The per students budget is negatively correlated with the school performance.
   When the spending budget for each student is higher, the school performance (including student's average math score, the average reading score, percent of passing math, percent of passing reading, and the overall passing decreases) is lower. Similarly, when the per student budget is lower, the school performance is higher. Therefore, the per student budget and school performance are negatively correlated. This finding asks for researchers to do more investigation on this factor. 
### 4. Larger school size is negatively correlated with the reading and math performance.
The schools that have the number of students that are less than 1000 (small) and are between 1000 and 2000 (medium) have the similar school performance in reading and math. But when the number ofstudents is greater than 2000 and less than 5000 (large), the school performance in math and reading significantly decreased.  This finding needs to be invesgated more. The smaller-size schools may have lower student-teacher ratio, and thus the stuents can be educated better.
### 5. The Charter schools have higher school performances than the district schools in math and reading
   Compared with district schools, the charter shools have higher average math and reading scores and percentage of passing math, reading and overrall passing.
This finding needs to be considered together with previous findings. For example: the charter schools have smaller school size and less school budget. 
To conlude, these findings can motivate the researchers and the school board to further investigating the reasons and factors among the relationship of school type, school size, school budget and school performance. These findings can also provide evidence for them to make stratagies to elevate the students performance, like downsizing school.
### References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLC. (2021) Realistic Data Generator. https://www.mockaroo.com/. Modified by Trilogy Education Services, LLC.

© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.
